First thankyou Mark for the coordinates for the shape.

In the past I have simply looked in my travels for the shape that I wanted
or something close.  Then I shaped the piece I had against the sander
rotating it to get a close shape but nowheres near as good as the lathe.

At this point I depart from your method of construction and use the piece as
a male plug.  I don't trust wax after too many problems over the years.  So
I head for the kitchen for the "Saran" wrap and masking tape.  I wrap the
plug in the saran wrap and wind it tight at the ends.  Holding as tight as
possible I cut off the twisted end and put some masking tape on it to hold
it in place then tighten and do the same on the other end.

Now it is covered with half the layers of glass.  Then after this has set I
sand it to remove any prune looks that it may have acquired.  Finally two
more layers are put on.

In the end when it is send I cut the back free square with a Stanley knife
then run straight down the bottom with a dremel cut off wheel.  It then
comes off easily but may be difficult to spread because of the strenght you
can build in.

If I wanted a nosecone I would simply cover the finished product (well
sanded) while it was still on the plug with another layer of "Saran" wrap
and then create the cone as I had done the previous.  When you make the cut
with the dremel tool you take them all off at once.

Now instant glue the bottom shell of the pod together.  When you cut the top
open for inserting servos put a layer of glass on the bottom on the inside.
I have finished the nosecone two ways.  Because the plug was not made on a
lathe don't lose the line where they were cut apart.  If you twist off this
line you may not get them apart some day.  One way I have put the nosecone
together is simply to fill the gap with thick glue and spray it  leaving the
last inch or two open.  I have also put a layer of "Saran" wrap on the pod
and spread the sides underneath with a strip of thin cardboasrd on both
sides kand then applied glass diirectloy.  I assume all your landings won't
be perfect so you will have to add a layer of glass to the first method as
well sometime while you are building another part.

This method requires a lot of sanding but if you use high grade course
(40-80) paper with a sanding mask it takes very little time.  When you are
done you do not have to put two pieces together.  This method is good for
one off types but if you were making a whole lot I would use a female type
mold.

This is only an alternative route.

Questions??

Rick
