
Ply joiner box assembly
-----------------------

Note: This must be done before the wing panels are assembled.
      Be sure to look at these drawings when reading this info sheet.

 joiners.pdf
 wing_seq.pdf
 wing_build.pdf


1) Working on a flat nonstick surface, assemble each set of three 
laser-cut 1/8" ply wedge pieces into 3/8" wide wedges with 5-minute epoxy 
or medium CA.  Bond strength is not critical here.  Remove excess 
adhesive from the wedge faces to get good subsequent bonds to the 
rod, tube, or sparcap.

2) Roughen and degrease the outside of the brass tube.  Epoxy the tube 
between the shallow wedges on top and bottom.  Likewise, epoxy the 
carbon rod between the steep wedges on top and bottom.  Note that 
the bottom rod wedge is tiny.  Use a good slow epoxy for this step.
If you're good at jigging up lots of separate pieces together,
proceed immediately with 3).  Otherwise wait until the epoxy sets up
to a rubbery state.

3) Epoxy on the 1/64" full-height side plates (not in the laser set) 
to the tube and rod assemblies, filling the voids with extra epoxy.  
Also add the provided laser-cut 1/8" full-height side plates to the 
tube assembly.  When done, the tube assembly will be 5/8" wide, 
and the rod assembly will be 3/8" wide. 

4) Clean excess epoxy off the assemblies when it's still rubbery.
Deburr the inside tube edges with an old #11 X-Acto knife.
Make sure the rod fits easily into the tube.  If not, sand the rod
with fine sandpaper on a hard block. 

5) The tube and rod assemblies will be treated just like the laser-cut
endgrain web pieces during spar/rib assembly.  They must be trimmed to
the exact correct length.   Wrap the rod with masking tape when 
installing the rod assembly into the mid panel spar to prevent excess
epoxy from contaminating it.

6) The extra 1/8" side plates on the tube assembly must first be beveled
so the assembly comes out with a 1/2" width and the tube ends up with
a sweep which matches the rod sweep (see joiners.pdf and wing_plan.pdf 
drawings).  The beveling lines are best determined by sliding the tube 
assembly onto the completed mid panel and aligning the mid panel with 
the center-panel plan.  A belt or disk sander is ideal for beveling the ply.
It's OK to leave the assembly a little wider than 1/2", so its sides
will be bulged slightly after cleanup (see wing_build.pdf).

7) The completed mid panel is used as a jig to keep the tube assembly 
at the precise sweep angle in the center panel spar during its assembly.
Be careful that excess epoxy which might ozze out doesn't glue the rod 
into the tube during this step!



