The bend in the center panel was a bit more work than I expected, 
but there were no major problems and it was managable.
It sure gets lots of "howd'yadothat?" questions? :-)


The first thing to make is a 5.8 deg (or 6 deg) wedge out of foam:
2.00" high, 19.0" long, and at least 9" wide.  This will be used to:

* jig up the bent center spar
* jig up the center wing beds during core cutting
* jig up the center wing beds during core/spar assembly
* support the core during sanding and general preparation
* jig up the center wing beds during bagging

Use high-density foam for the wedge if possible.  It will get 
lots of use.  You can alternatively make two 1.00" high (3 deg) wedges
if 2" dense foam is not available.


The center spar is glued up with the bend in it using the single 
6 deg wedge, or the two 3 deg wedges.  You gave to press down 
extra hard right at the center bend so the kink is "sharp".
Use plenty of epoxy at the center kink, so it doesn't pop apart
prior to application of the glass wrap.  The cap/web bond away 
from the kink is not critical.

Put metal or glass plates on the foam wedge and table to make sure
things stay dead flat.  My spar got a slight wave on the side that
was on the foam wedge, because the foam dented slightly under the 
clamping load.  It still fit within the wing contour, but barely.

The caps have significant built-in stresses at the kink, but this
doesn't matter.  The spar is sized entirely for stiffness and doesn't
come close to its failure stress.


I suggest using Kevlar joiner tubes.  Very light, and they won't nick
the CF rods.  If the permanent rod cracks, your wing is junked,
so Kevlar tubes are much safer than metal.  The BD folder as the 
AL group has a PDF sheet on wrapping Kevlar tubes.


Before applying the glass wrap, I applied anti-burst CF tow wrap 
for 3/16" at the center-panel's spar ends, saturating while wrapping. 
The caps are first sanded down at that spot to prevent a bump.
About five 3K tow wraps are sufficient.

The spar wrap is 2.0 oz bias glass in the center spar, overlapped about 
10" in the center (two layers there).  The tip spars got 0.75 oz glass.  
One extra 2.0 oz glass wrap was put over all four joiner blocks.

All glass was applied with 3M-77, then saturated, blotted, and bagged.
No breather is necessary since compaction isn't critical.
Make the bags come off roughly in the middle of the balsa face.
Be very careful not to nick the glass when cleaning up.
Glass failure in spar sample tests always occurs at the edge 
of the carbon caps, so round off these edges generously.


The bolt tab was cut from 3/16" thick PC board.  Aluminum should 
also work OK.  Plywood will wear too much with the small bolt I think.
To install the bolt tab, cut a small "window" in the glass skin
which matches the tab.  Using a bent piece of sharpened piano wire,
hog out the soft balsa top to bottom and slightly wider than the tab.
Make sure the spar caps are exposed on the inside.  Fill the void
with epoxy and push the tab into position letting the displaced
epoxy ooze out.


Once I had the bent spar, the rest was nothing really special.
I sliced the cores apart using the spars themselves as slicing jigs.
Some sanding was required to minimize the gaps.  The center-panel
core pieces also require fitting together at a bevel on the centerline.
Any voids can be later filled with Micro-Fill.

The foam core pieces were glued onto the spar with a minimal amount 
of 15-minute epoxy.  This joint takes no load, and spotty coverage 
of epoxy in the joint is OK.  The bottom beds are used for vertical
alignment.  Masking tape on the bottom spar ensures that the spar 
will be slightly within the foam contour.  The gap is filled with 
microballoons/epoxy and sanded flush.  The top of the spar is also 
below the contour, and that's also filled.  The filler is not easy 
to sand.  MicroFill would be a lot easier, but it's weak, and it's 
important to solidly connect the spar to the skin.  Hard balsa may 
be an easier alternative.  A-grain balsa is better for this, since 
it's stronger through the thickness than C-grain.  

Any remaining voids between the core and spar can be filled with 
Micro-Fill.  This is also effective on the inevitable dings put 
into the foam during the assembly and preparation.  Before filling,
a ding should be first mostly sprung back with steam, by covering 
with a wet paper towel and applying an iron set at about 230-250F.


For bagging the center panel, the bottom Mylar is one piece, 
and the top Mylars are two pieces, all hinged together at the
back edge.  Fit the Mylar butt joint in the center as well 
as possible to minimize the epoxy ridge.

